---
title: On being shy in tech and business
layout: post
---

There are a lot of things in life that I wish I would do but often I shut myself out of things for one reason or another. Typically it's fear of failure or commonly shyness. It's not that I particularly care about what people think -- I guess I'm more just afraid of disappointing myself.

I'm a dreamer. I've been building stuff with computers for over twenty years now, which seems crazy considering I'm twenty-six years old. Growing up I was always coming up with ideas and tinkering with stuff both on a computer and not. This manifested in all kinds of silly things:

* I constantly dismantled and rebuilt my computers, starting around age 5. Sometimes I had new parts to add that people from church or my dad's work had given me, other times I literally took it apart and put it right back together like a soldier dismantling a firearm.
* I "invented" Windows 97 when I was seven or eight by taking a Windows 95 installer disk set (we're talking floppy diskettes) and modifying the `CAB` files and adding my own things so it would essentially *accidentally* install a customized version of Windows 95.
* I made a pinball machine out of cardboard box lids, marbles, pencils, Lego bricks, and rubber bands. It was bizarre but innovative and my dad still brings it up from time to time.
* I had a phase where I was obsessed with boats and would design boats out of Legos and then test them in the bathtub. I'd take note of their buoyancy and inevitably play a sort-of Jenga: removing strategic bricks to emulate disasters and see how resilient the design was.

As I got older ideas became bigger and more ambitious. They weren't always things I could pull off myself -- they would require me to step squarely out of my comfort zone and fill a bunch of roles that were pretty intimidating for a shy small-town[^1] introvert like me.

I failed in many of these, just as much from paralyzing inaction as from it just being a bad idea. There's a whole graveyard of old designs, codebases, and domain names from middle and high school that never reached their full potentials due to this invisible wall.

Having been so passionately interested in technology and software, I was commonly missing lots of social events and milestones you'd expect from a teenager. In those days, web development and the Internet were things only accessible via a connection wired to a big box in your bedroom, a place where not much socializing is likely to happen. This effectively meant it was mutually exclusive: learn and tinker with tech or go to football games, Chipley's de facto social event which I cared even less about because I had no interest in football.

Most times I'd choose tech. And this of course can't be called a mistake because I've had a very successful career in tech so far, but these decisions did of course have negative impacts on my life, such as not knowing how to act in certain social settings, not knowing what "normal" people "do" for fun, and at times plain avoidance of situations out of fear I won't know how to act.

It manifests itself inconsistently and I've had quite a lot of success in my career despite my social awkwardness at times. A recent work trip out to Sunnyvale for meetings (where I've been [consulting for Google](/hire-me/)) included several awkward informal social events with large groups of unknown people. It was unnecessarily stressful but much progress was made -- likely unbeknownst to anyone else.

### So why am I telling you all this?

As I'm branching out more into freelancing (on-purpose, this time) I realize a lot of self-development is necessary. One of my favorite developer/freelancers is [Sam Soffes](http://soff.es) who lives a very transparent lifestyle that is very refreshingly honest. Although he does mostly iOS and Mac stuff, which I do none of, he's very relatable and inspiring. I find this idea of transparency very liberating and relaxing -- like it's okay to be open and unguarded sometimes. It's like, okay, you're nervous, just put it out there and move on. How can you worry about people realizing you're nervous when you've warned them ahead of time? I think people appreciate this honesty.

So in thinking about how to develop myself and throw myself out there more a little at a time, I've decided to create a newsletter. Consider it a gateway drug to being more outgoing on the web and to build connections both on- and offline. I hope to eventually branch it out into at least a podcast[^2] (assuming people will want to listen to it) which will hopefully lead to interacting with more tech folks publicly and invitations to speak on others'. I'll post about that soon.

Another venue I'm considering doing is screencasts, particularly about front-end development (I've been very involved in [Polymer](https://polymer-project.org) in my time at Google) which could lead into teaching how and with what tools I work with. That's something I've wanted to do for years, but, again, it's scary. Time will tell.

The point is to do *something*. I can't continue to underperform my dreams by such a large margin. This may be stupid but it's a step. You know the whole "a journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step". I expect to chronicle my adventures freelancing and in building a web development consultancy with my friend Adam, alongside my struggles and tactics for trying to get over myself and raise my social comfort levels. The trials and tribulations, what worked, what didn't. I expect this will be helpful for many other similar geeks.


### Signing up for the newsletter

Wow, that sounded weird. Although the details aren't out yet, you can [go ahead and throw your email into the pot](https://tinyletter.com/zacharytamas). This is where I promise no spam and no more than one email a week: possibly even a month. Topics aren't totally decided but I have a lot of interests that I explore so you can expect things ranging from technology, tech career, self-development progress, music, photography, fitness, artificial intelligence, etc.

As I mentioned before, my friend Adam and I are starting a consultancy called [Northern Logic](http://wearenorthern.com) to further a goal which we both share of building a better web. Way back in our teen years he and I provided IT services for small businesses in our hometown and we're excited to work together again. You can expect posts about lessons learned and tips/advice as we navigate through that. So in particular, if you're curious about **that** you should get a lot out of it.

Ultimately, a goal of this baby step is to acquire at least a few subscribers, which will keep me accountable to furthering my goals and not being shy and flaking out and just jumping back to a comfortable full-time job. I think that would be a wrong move for me, especially knowing that it would be largely motivated by fear.

### Thanks for reading

Thanks for reading this far. Being this open is taking some getting used to and hope to write better and more often very soon. So if you're curious, [here's that link again](https://tinyletter.com/zacharytamas). You could also [follow me on Twitter]({{site.elsewhere.twitter}}). Either way, I'm sure I'll see you around the interwebs.

[^1]: [Chipley, Florida](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chipley,_Florida), population 3,592. To my knowledge, at the time I was growing up I was one of only two people my age who were into computers. He and I later became good friends and remain that way to this day.
[^2]: I actually already have the equipment and knowhow for this: one of my many random interests is music and audio production so I do have experience there.
